you've been in this science you've been
at The Cutting Edge of the science for
decades now so why has it exceeded your
expectations several tools Came Upon Us
um which were
unexpected um crisper is absolutely one
of them so just to go back a little bit
to explain what crisper is crisper is a
bacterial system by which you can make
very specific alterations in the in the
genome yeah in genomes um which you
couldn't do before that technology I
would say is groundbreaking and is it
really shook our worlds because we I
hadn't in principle you can now
customize a human being in principle you
can customize the genomes in in as I
said in small ways people say oh oh you
know we're going to make new human
beings that are you know customizable to
the end degree blue eyes taller you know
whatever ever etc those are almost
impossible things to do and that's
because most of those traits are encoded
not by one but by hundreds if not
thousands of genes that's um puts a
natural limit because with crisper you
can only go so far so that's one thing
that happened the second thing that's
happening very very quickly is um we're
making synthetic genomes that are longer
and longer and longer now if you make a
synthetic genome that's longer and
longer and longer very soon you're going
to get to a place where you can put a
really really long piece of an entirely
chemically synthesized piece of DNA you
don't need crisper for that you can
basically write a code um I hadn't
expected the speed at which that's
happened either so now you can go up to
thousands tens of thousands very soon
we'll be able to go up to millions of
completely freshly written code just
like you would type into a computer last
piece or last two pieces so I talk about
crisper y i talked about synthetic
genomes number three is we are now doing
more and more bionic things I talked
about electrodes so we're doing bionic
things we're extending our hands our
brains uh using bionic and where bionics
comes in of course AI comes in the
minute you have bionics you have ai
because artificial intelligence in
principle allows you to do very much
Superior bionics so we can optimize a
prosthetic leg for inst to work more
effectively than a real one that's right
and we can optimize potentially a
prosthetic electrical device that would
sit on your brain to uh work much much
more effectively because there's a
learning algorithm inside it which
wasn't there before and I said there
were four things the fourth is has been
around for a while but it's been cloning
so Dolly the sheep um it's moved along
in time and now all of a sudden we're
cloning lower animals like sheep um much
much more effectively so what I'm trying
to say is now combine all these four
pieces these pieces are sort of sitting
right now in different silos um but
imagine a combination of all four of
these or some combination of these
threes these three things applied to a
real human and that's what I mean by the
new human that's the speed at which I
had not expected these four pieces to
come together again to name them crisper
synthetic biology um prosthetic bi ology
with AI and uh cloning of of of
individuals that's that's what is moving
this Nexus has been moving faster than I
had
[Music]
expected